Application Catalog Documentation - Requirements - What is it - Why (#31)
vshn/application-catalog-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/explanations/what_is.adoc

= What is the Application Catalog

TL;DR::
* A catalog of services which can be self-service ordered directly from a Kubernetes cluster
* A framework to build services which are then available in the catalog

[quote, products.docs.vshn.ch]
____
The VSHN Application Catalog is a Cloud Native marketplace which offers services from Cloud Service Providers like Amazon AWS, Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, Aiven.io, Exoscale or cloudscale.ch, as well as managed services from VSHN.
____

> Behind the scenes it's *our framework* to self-service deploy applications on Kubernetes, by simply ordering a new instance directly in the cluster (no external system involved).

Reviewer: > no external system involved

That's not true for resold services. Or what exactly is an "external system" in this context?

Author: I rephrased this part as it doesn't make sense when I've read it again.

It's a list of applications available in an APPUiO Kubernetes cluster from which the user of the cluster can choose from.
The list of applications heavily depends on where the cluster runs and it's capabilities.

== The Framework

It enables us to:

* Easily engineer new services for the application catalog, by still having them to adhere to our standards and make them discoverable
* Have similarity between all services in the application catalog because they all are built using the same framework and technology

> * A standardization of the same service between clusters, because we set our defaults and only expose the parameters we want to allow to be customized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A standardization of the same service between clusters, because we set our best practises and only expose the parameters we want to allow to be customized
```

The list of applications heavily depends on where the cluster runs and it's capabilities.

== The Framework

It enables us to:

* Easily engineer new services for the application catalog, by still having them to adhere to our standards and make them discoverable
* Have similarity between all services in the application catalog because they all are built using the same framework and technology
* A standardization of the same service between clusters, because we set our best practices and only expose the parameters we want to allow to be customized

=== A comparison

For a better picture, the framework can be compared to:

Puppet::
* Base modules allow installing a service and configure (usually) every aspect of it (a lot of parameters are exposed)
* Profiles use base modules, glue them together and configure them with our own best-practice, to form a new service. Usually only a few parameters are exposed and only these parameters can be influenced.

Project Syn::
* Helm charts are the base modules. They allow installing and configure the service and expose all possible options.

> * Commodore Components are sticking Helm Charts together, parametrize them with best-practices and only make a handful of options available to the user.

Author: I see, I have to check that in more detail. And I also see a need to clarify the personas in more detail here...

> * Commodore Components are sticking Helm Charts together, parametrize them with best-practices and only make a handful of options available to the user.

Author: After talking to some Project Syn maintainers, I figured out that my description wasn't 100% correct. There are Commodore Components which are setting default values, but still expose the full Helm values as a fallback. Amended the description accordingly.
